
# Tribes
>I had a though on tribes. About gathering in a tribe (ref conversation with Ole V), and about searching for your tribe. I think reflecting on this can reveal a blog post.

The core here is the search. Searching for your tribe. Don't settle.
---

## intro to he concept of tribes
TK: Our need for tribes - something about belonging

Finding your tribe isn't easy. It's a long journey of many missteps. You may be part of a tribe your entire life. You may wander to look for other tribes out there and dive back into your old tribe for safety. Other times you need to find another to call your own. Sometimes you need to start your own with your closest around you. Other times you need to just start, and hope others will follow.

## describing tribes
### proximity 
But, what are tribes? Tribes used to be about proximity. About where you came from. Changing tribes used to be a physical action. Moving from one area to another.

But do we change tribes that often? **I think we do.**

Our main tribe may be a community. A place we call home. Our base. Alongside our world view, belief system or faith. These tribes are rock solid and don't change easily. We then explore other tribes through school, activities, interests and our professions.

Our professions and workplaces become another one of those stable tribes, as we decide how much time we spend invested. It has at least been so for me.

### time
Do yo know that feeling when you meet up with old friends and you more or less continue from the exat place you left off? That's your tribe and value system in play. Some tribes last over lifetimes with different levels of interactions, while others are short-lived with high intensity.

In our digital age it's no longer like that. You can find a virtual tribe, where switching tribes could be joining another group. You can physically move across the world and still stay in the same virtual tribe, even though you may change your physical one.


## The search
In the words of Steve Jobs...quote TK : "Don't settle..."

---
## Tribes in our software profession
TK: Too detailed and outside the scope of "the search"

- Languages
- Places of work (startups, enterprise, locations)
- Frameworks, libraries, paradigms

## Tribes interacting with each other (Tribal warfare)
- TK perhaps I don't need to take it this far....at least not yet.

