# 2018 in review
As is tradition (reviews for [2016]() and [2017]()) I want to spend a few minutes reflecting on the year of 2018. I find that taking time to reflect helps gives me perspective of where I am on my own personal journey. Reflecting also helps give closure and allows me to direct my thoughts and efforts towards what I want to accomplish in the future.

2018 has been one of the most exciting years from a professional stance, it's also been one of the most frustrating on my own personal growth journey. How can this be, you may ask? Or may maybe not. I'm asking at least, and will be exploring that in this post.

## Putting things into perspective
Having some sort of perspective on where you are in life brings a lot of context. It allows you to understand where you need to focus your efforts and what you can expect from the outcomes. Without perspective expecations run amok, and this has been a theme of mine for the last year.

Let's add some perspective by looking at the themes of the past few years:
 - 2015: The year I hit my first real burnout. A low point in life that has turned out to be an eye-opening experience. Became a dad for the 3rd time.
 - 2016: The rebound year and discovering I had more to offer. My most active blog year, podcast appearance and a conference talk.
 - 2017: Exploring ideas, video and vulnerability. Putting myself out there on all fronts, blog, vlog and several conference talks. 
 - 2018: Change, Challenges, Struggle, Failure, Growth. **Let's dig in!**

## Change, Challenges and Struggle
This year brought around a big change - a shift in careers. I transitioned from a Web Developer / Team Lead with a path towards Agile Coach / Management / Leadership type of roles at a larger company to becoming a founding employee at the startup, [Dolittle]() (more on this some other time). 

The role I took, and currently have is User Experience Lead / Web Developer, and as with any (small) company; titles mean nothing. User Experience is a new field for me to dive in to, practice and build skills in. The same goes for modern javascript app development. 

Days have been filled with more frontend and javascript work than any before, both for our own products and client projects As well as all the aspects of building a great culture and a the fundaments of a company that will last for years to come.


## Failure
Working in any startup is hectic, and that's also what I experienced, even though we limited oureles to regular workdays, the sheer number of balls we needed to juggle was overwherlming at times. The transition has been exciting, invigouring and also painful. On one side I've wanted to explore and establish what UX is at Dolittle, and on the other, coding and working with clients to bring in some income naturally took presedence. All of the while fumbling trying to get on board with modern JavaScript Web Development. This lead to a feeling of not feeling adaquate or competent in any of the work I was doing.

Another consequence of feeling like all my energy was going towards not accomplishing things were the negative thoughts and the stories I was telling myself. Luckily for me the people I decided to work with that Dolittle are some of the best humans I've ever had the privilege to know, second only to my life partner, and they offered their support. But the feelings still lingered - this was something I needed to work through, and deal with for myself. Which leads to my next real failure - Not taking time to reflect and process how much I was actually learning.

On a related note, I realize that previous accomplishments have been holding me back from future accomplishments. I've struggled to put my self and content out there for several reasons, one of them has been comparing myself to my previous self, without applying any form of context or perspective. The word "should" has been used way too often.

## Growth 

Things were looking a lot brighter towards the end of the year. I was more comforotable with the day-to-day challenges we had at work, as well being able to acknowledge my role and the contributions I was making. This gave me some space to reflect over my own learnings. I was also able to identify a weakness I had (with help from colleagues), namely that I self-sensor myself a lot. This manifested itself in not speaking up in meetings. Not sharing my thoughts on what I felt was important through other communication channels, and also it put a solid block over any attempt I made to write anything in public. This isn't to be confused with reflecting and pondering over a topic before forming an opinion (which I also do), but when it was evident that I had something to ask or say - I didn't. I was afraid. Afraid to not have the right answer, to appear foolish and found it easier to keep thoughts within. Identifying this specific behaviour has been a key discovery, and is something I'll be working on in the coming year.

As I mentioned earlier, being in a startup means wearing multiple hats, and this has been the year I really re-embraced modern javascript web development with AureliaJS. It's been a painful process of wanting to deliver and ship great products, but stumble on "simple" things like identifying component abstractions, understanding es6 syntax, as well as learn the framework iteself. The use of, and expectaions that these are simple things is another manifestation of the "should"-problem. 

When I now look back, I'm proud of the progress I've made in this area. From feelin inadequate to being able to write components, and application logic with TDD in less than a year has been a huge win.

None of my learnings would have been possible without the people I'm surrounded with. They say that you are the average of the 5 people closest to you TK, and I'm surrounded by 5 of the most influentual people in my career, not to mention them surrounded by others that are equally influenced by. I'm humbled, honoured and so priviliged to be able to work in these conditions.

## On a private note 
On a private note I want to mention running. 2018 has been the year I purposefully made running a habit. I have some big hairy goals for 2019 when it comes to running, namely complete a marathon towards th end of the year.

I've cut drastically down on phone usage around the family as well. Disabled my facebook account, removed twitter from my phone, and optimized more time to be present with them. It's come in handy as our 3rd child has made the transition from innocent toddler to chaos monster (3 yrs old).

I've also been able to plough through quite a few books during my commutes. Some really good reads here.


## In conclusion

Summarizing the ups and downs of an entire year in a post is challenging in itself, and writing this has been a lot harder than expected. I knew I wanted to write this before spending time on anything else, so it had the potential to become a blocker for me. I also wanted this to be a personal reflection post, rather than a set of useful tips, things I've learned, quick wins. Lists of accomplishments, contributions and side projects. There's enough of that out there. Instead I hope this post reminds people that life is messy. We all have our ups and downs, our cycles of growth, expansion, reflection. That doesn't mean that you're less than others in any way, just that you're human and that 2018 has been exactly wht you needed to prepare for 2019. That's how I choose to see it, at least.

At the end of the day, I'm priviliged to be working alongside some amazing people, on a powerful mission together, building the company we've always wanted to work in. All the while, having a good family life, spending quality with my kids. 

Looking forward to a new year of struggling well!

## Books read / listened to
Gathering this information was a lot harder than I anticipated
 - Books read / listened to
  - Accelerate: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations
  - Crushing It!: How Great Entrepreneurs Build Their Business and Influence-and How You Can, Too
  - Factfulness: Ten Reasons We're Wrong About The World - And Why Things Are Better Than You Think
  - Finding Ultra: Rejecting Middle Age, Becoming One of the World's Fittest Men, and Discovering Myself
  - Hit Refresh: The Quest to Rediscover Microsoft's Soul and Imagine a Better Future for Everyone
  - It Doesn't Have to Be Crazy at Work
  - It Starts with Food: Discover the Whole30 and Change Your Life in Unexpected Ways
  - Just Listen: Discover the secret to Getting throught to anyone
  - Never Split the Difference: Negotiating as if Your Life Depended on It
  - Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience, and Finding Joy
  - Principles: Life and Work
  - Smarter Faster Better: The Secrets of Being Productive in Life and Business
  - Spaceman: An Astronaut's Unlikely Journey to Unlock the Secrets of the Universe
  - The 5 Second Rule: Transform Your Life, Work, and Confidence with Everyday Courage
  - The Art Of Saying NO: How To Stand Your Ground, Reclaim Your Time And Energy, And Refuse To Be Taken For Granted
  - The Heart To Start: Win the Inner War & Let Your Art Shine
  - The Phoenix Project: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win 5th Anniversary Edition




## 



